Data Drepper 2.11 blog post (#3752)
opensearch-project/project-website: _posts/2025-04-24-Announcing-Data-Prepper-2.11.md

---
layout: post
title: 'Announcing OpenSearch Data Prepper 2.11: Supercharged OpenTelemetry and even more sources'
authors:
- san81
- kkondaka
- dvenable
- oeyh
date: 2025-04-17 12:30:00 -0600
categories:
  - releases
excerpt: Data Prepper 2.10.0 offers better OpenTelemetry support and new integrations with external sources.
meta_keywords: Data Prepper, OpenTelemetry, Atlassian Jira, Atlassian Confluent, Amazon Aurora, Amazon RDS, Amazon SQS
meta_description: Data Prepper 2.10.0 offers better OpenTelemetry support and new integrations with Jira, Confluent, Amazon Aurora/RDS, and Amazon SQS.
---

## Introduction

> OpenSearch Data Prepper 2.11 is now available for download! This release includes a number of great improvements to help you ingest data into OpenSearch.  Some major changes include new sources for data and better OpenTelemetry support.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
OpenSearch Data Prepper 2.11 is now available for download! This release includes a number of improvements to help you ingest data into OpenSearch. Some major changes include new sources for data and better OpenTelemetry (OTel) support.
```

> ## OpenTelemetry improvements

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## OTel improvements
```

Author: I'm curious why you recommend this change.

Reviewer: Because OTel is now defined where it first appears on line 19, so you can just use the abbreviation here 😄.

> Previously, the design and implementation of OpenTelemetry (OTel) sources were tightly coupled with the OpenSearch data mapping model and ease of integration with OpenSearch Dashboards, necessitating the following functionality in OTel sources:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Previously, the design and implementation of OTel sources were tightly coupled with the OpenSearch data mapping model and ease of integration with OpenSearch Dashboards, necessitating the following functionality in OTel sources:
```

> * Replacing dot(.) s in attributes with the at symbol (@).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Replacing dots (.) in attributes with the at symbol (@).
```

* Merging and flattening of attributes -- Resource attributes, scope attributes, and log/metric/span attributes are all merged and stored in the root of the event.
* Addition of non-standard fields -- Non-standard fields, like service name and trace group fields, are added.

Data Prepper has now been modified to support the generation of events compliant with the OTel standard specification. To support this, the following changes have been implemented:

* A new `output_format` configuration option has been added under each OTel source, with OpenSearch as the default, and can be configured to generate OTel-compliant events.

> * OTelProtoCodec.java has been renamed to OTelProtoOpensearchCodec.java to support the default behavior and the new configuration option.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `OTelProtoCodec.java` has been renamed to `OTelProtoOpensearchCodec.java` to support the default behavior and the new configuration option.
```

> * All the non-standard behavior and fields have been removed from OTelProtoStandardCodec.java in favor of storing non-standard fields in an event's metadata. Span APIs like `getServiceName()` have been modified to return data from metadata when it is available. This enables the `otel_traces` and `service_map` processors to work as expected without any changes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* All the non-standard behavior and fields have been removed from `OTelProtoStandardCodec.java` in favor of storing non-standard fields in an event's metadata. Span APIs like `getServiceName()` have been modified to return data from metadata when it is available. This enables the `otel_traces` and `service_map` processors to work as expected without any changes.
```

> Here's how to get started:

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Here's how to get started:
```

Data Prepper provides a robust collection of [processors](https://docs.opensearch.org/docs/latest/data-prepper/pipelines/configuration/processors/processors/) that you can use to parse or grok, depending on the format of your message.

To help reduce your Amazon SQS costs, you can instead design your SQS data and configure Data Prepper to support multiple events per message.
Using this approach reduces your Amazon SQS costs by combining data into SQS messages, allowing for fewer SQS sends and receives.
To take this approach, you must design your sending application to send SQS messages to Amazon SQS in a format available as a [Data Prepper codec](https://docs.opensearch.org/docs/latest/data-prepper/pipelines/configuration/sources/s3/#codec).
Then you can configure your Data Prepper pipeline to use that codec to parse the message into multiple events.

## Other features and improvements

This release also includes several additional features to help you create pipelines:

* The `rename_keys` processor can now rename keys with variable names using a regex pattern.
* The `opensearch` sink now supports new index types for OTel logs and metrics.

> * Data Prepper expressions now support slashes (`/`) in the key by allowing you to escape the `/` character.

Author: @natebower , I changed this line again to try to add clarity. Please take another look.

Reviewer: @dlvenable LGTM

---
layout: post
title: Announcing Data Prepper 2.11
authors:
- san81
- kkondaka
- dvenable
- oeyh
date: 2025-04-17 12:30:00 -0600
categories:
  - releases
excerpt: Data Prepper 2.10.0 offers better OpenTelemetry support and new integrations with external sources.
meta_keywords: Data Prepper, OpenTelemetry, Atlassian Jira, Atlassian Confluent, Amazon Aurora, Amazon RDS, Amazon SQS
meta_description: Data Prepper 2.10.0 offers better OpenTelemetry support and new integrations with Jira, Confluent, Amazon Aurora/RDS, and Amazon SQS.
---

## Introduction

Data Prepper 2.11 is now available for download!
This release includes a number of great improvements to help you ingest data into OpenSearch.

> Some major changes include new sources for data and better OpenTelemetry support.

Author: We discussed this offline. Markdown does not create new lines when only a single line break is present. So this will render as one paragraph.

fostering improved information discovery and team productivity. By synchronizing Confluence content and continuously monitoring for updates,
the plugin ensures that your OpenSearch index remains an up-to-date, comprehensive reflection of your organization's shared knowledge base.
The integration offers flexible filtering options, allowing you to selectively import content from specific spaces or page types, tailoring the synchronized content to your organization's needs.
The plugin supports both basic API key and OAuth2 authentication methods, with the added option of securely managing credentials through AWS Secrets.
Furthermore, the plugin's automatic token renewal feature guarantees uninterrupted access and seamless operation.
Built on Atlassian's Confluence [api-version](https://developer.atlassian.com/cloud/confluence/rest/v1/intro/#auth),
this integration empowers teams to leverage OpenSearch's advanced search capabilities across their Confluence content,
dramatically enhancing information accessibility and utilization within the organization. Here's how to get started:

> 

Reviewer 2: Done 👍

```
version: "2"
extension:
    aws:
      secrets:
        confluence-account-credentials:
          secret_id: <<secret-arn>>
          region: <<secrets-region>>
          sts_role_arn: <<role-to-access-secret>>
confluence-pipeline:
  source:
    confluence:
      hosts: ["<<Atlassian-host-url>>"]
      authentication: 
        basic:
          username: ${{aws_secrets:confluence-account-credentials:confluenceId}}
          password: ${{aws_secrets:confluence-account-credentials:confluenceCredential}}
      filter:
        space:
          key:
            include:
              - "<<space-key>>"
            exclude:
               - "<<space-key>>"
        page_type:
          include: 
            - "page"
            - "blogpost"
            - "comment"
          exclude:
            - "attachment"
  sink:
    - opensearch:

```

## Amazon Aurora/RDS as a source

> [Amazon Aurora](https://aws.amazon.com/rds/aurora/) and [Amazon RDS](https://aws.amazon.com/rds/) are fully managed relational database services that make it easier to set up, operate, and scale a relational database in the AWS Cloud.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Amazon Aurora](https://aws.amazon.com/rds/aurora/) and [Amazon Relational Database Service (Amazon RDS)](https://aws.amazon.com/rds/) are fully managed relational database services that make it easier to set up, operate, and scale a relational database in the AWS Cloud.
```

> For those who want to take advantage of advanced search capabilities like full-text and vector search on the transactional data in Amazon Aurora/RDS, you can now use Data Prepper to synchronize data from Aurora and RDS to OpenSearch.

Reviewer 3: Should it be Amazon Aurora and Amazon RDS?
```suggestion
For those who want to take advantage of advanced search capabilities like full-text and vector search on the transactional data in Amazon Aurora/RDS, you can now use Data Prepper to synchronize data from Amazon Aurora and Amazon RDS to OpenSearch.
```

> For those who want to take advantage of advanced search capabilities like full-text and vector search on the transactional data in Amazon Aurora/RDS, you can now use Data Prepper to synchronize data from Aurora and RDS to OpenSearch.

Reviewer: For Amazon Aurora, the full name should be used on first appearance. Subsequent appearances may use just "Aurora". For Amazon RDS, "Amazon Relational Database Service (Amazon RDS)" should be used on first appearance, and Amazon prefers that "Amazon RDS" be used for subsequent appearances. That said, it's also fine to just consistently use "Amazon Aurora" and "Amazon RDS" for subsequent appearances.

> For those who want to take advantage of advanced search capabilities like full-text and vector search on the transactional data in Amazon Aurora/RDS, you can now use Data Prepper to synchronize data from Aurora and RDS to OpenSearch.

Reviewer 3: I see what you mean now. Makes sense.

> Data Prepper’s new `rds` source first exports existing data from Amazon Aurora/RDS tables to OpenSearch indices, then streams incremental changes from those tables to keep the data consistent between the relational database and OpenSearch.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Data Prepper's new `rds` source first exports existing data from Aurora/Amazon RDS tables to OpenSearch indexes and then streams incremental changes from those tables in order to maintain data consistency between the relational database and OpenSearch.
```

Reviewer 3: Should it be Amazon Aurora / Amazon RDS?
```suggestion
Data Prepper’s new `rds` source first exports existing data from Amazon Aurora/Amazon RDS tables to OpenSearch indices, then streams incremental changes from those tables to keep the data consistent between the relational database and OpenSearch.
```

Reviewer: See above

> The `rds` source currently supports Aurora MySQL, Aurora PostgreSQL, RDS MySQL, and RDS PostgreSQL engines.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `rds` source currently supports the Aurora MySQL, Aurora PostgreSQL, RDS MySQL, and RDS PostgreSQL engines.
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

The following is an example configuration:

```yaml
aurora-mysql-pipeline:
  source:
    rds:
      db_identifier: "my-aurora-cluster"
      engine: "aurora-mysql"
      database: "hr_db"
      tables:
        include:
          - "employees"
          - "departments"
      s3_bucket: "my-s3-bucket"
      s3_prefix: "pipeline-data"
      export:
        kms_key_id: "1234abcd-1234-abcd-1234-123456abcdef"
        export_role_arn: "arn:aws:iam::123456789012:role/ExportRole"
      stream: true
      aws:
        sts_role_arn: "arn:aws:iam::123456789012:role/PipelineRole"
        region: "us-east-1"
      authentication:
        username: ${{aws_secrets:secret:username}}
        password: ${{aws_secrets:secret:password}}
```

> ## SQS as a source

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Amazon SQS as a source
```

> Data Prepper now supports a new Amazon Simple Queue Service (SQS) source for reading events from SQS queues.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Data Prepper now supports a new Amazon Simple Queue Service (Amazon SQS) source for reading events from SQS queues.
```

Amazon SQS is a fully managed message queue.

> The new SQS source in Data Prepper efficiently receives messages from SQS to create events you can route to sinks such as OpenSearch.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The new SQS source in Data Prepper efficiently receives messages from Amazon SQS to create events that you can route to sinks.
```

> 

Reviewer: Line 218: "`sqs` source"? Please combine the three lines into one.

Author: I changed to `sqs` source.

> Data Prepper receives SQS messages from an SQS queue in batches, then creates Data Prepper events from those SQS messages.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Data Prepper receives SQS messages from an SQS queue in batches and then creates Data Prepper events from those SQS messages.
```

By default, Data Prepper will create a single Data Prepper event per SQS message.

> Data Prepper provides a robust collection of [processors](https://docs.opensearch.org/docs/latest/data-prepper/pipelines/configuration/processors/processors/) that you can use to parse or grok, depending on the format of your message.

Reviewer: Please combine these three lines into one.

> To help reduce your SQS costs, you can instead design your SQS data and Data Prepper to support multiple events per message.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To help reduce your Amazon SQS costs, you can instead design your SQS data and configure Data Prepper to support multiple events per message.
```

> Using this approach reduces your SQS costs by combining data into SQS messages allowing for fewer SQS sends and receives.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using this approach reduces your Amazon SQS costs by combining data into SQS messages, allowing for fewer SQS sends and receives.
```

> To take this approach you must design your sending application to send SQS messages to SQS in a format available as a [Data Prepper codec](https://docs.opensearch.org/docs/latest/data-prepper/pipelines/configuration/sources/s3/#codec).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To take this approach, you must design your sending application to send SQS messages to Amazon SQS in a format available as a [Data Prepper codec](https://docs.opensearch.org/docs/latest/data-prepper/pipelines/configuration/sources/s3/#codec).
```

> Then you configure your Data Prepper pipeline to use that codec to parse the message into multiple events.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then you can configure your Data Prepper pipeline to use that codec to parse the message into multiple events.
```

> 

Reviewer: Combine the four preceding lines into one.

## Other features and improvements

> This release includes another of other features to help you create pipelines for your needs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This release also includes several additional features to help you create pipelines:
```

* The `rename_keys` processor can now rename keys with variable names using a regex pattern.

> * The `opensearch` sink now supports new index types for OTel Logs and Metrics.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The `opensearch` sink now supports new index types for OTel logs and metrics.
```

> * Data Prepper expressions now support names with `/` using escaping of the `/` character.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Data Prepper expressions now support names with `/` by escaping the `/` character.
```

> 

Reviewer: Confirm that my change to line 235 retains the intended meaning.

## Next steps

> Working is continuing on Data Prepper with a few new features coming.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Work is continuing on Data Prepper, with a few new features upcoming. One exciting feature is the integration of ML Commons and Amazon Bedrock into Data Prepper pipelines. This feature is provided through a new machine learning (ML) inference processor and the Amazon Simple Storage Service (Amazon S3) source and sink. The feature is currently in development and is available for experimental use in version 2.11.
```

> One exciting feature is the integration with ML-Commons and Amazon Bedrock in Data Prepper pipelines.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> This feature is provided through a new ML inference processor and the Amazon S3 source and sink.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> The feature is currently in development and is available for experimental usage in 2.11.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> See the [Data Prepper roadmap](https://github.com/orgs/opensearch-project/projects/221/views/1) for more information on upcoming features.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See the [Data Prepper Project Roadmap](https://github.com/orgs/opensearch-project/projects/221/views/1) for more information on upcoming features.
```

## Thanks to our contributors!

> Thanks to these community members who contributed toward this release!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Thanks to the following community members who contributed to this release!
```
